hey this is pressure Locker a teacher
writes six words on the board cat dog
has max dim and tag the teacher hands a
piece of paper to Albert another piece
of paper to Bernard and another piece of
paper to Cheryl the teacher announces
that each paper contains a different
letter from one of the words on the
board the teacher asks aloud Albert do
you know the word Albert replies yes he
does know the word the teacher then asks
aloud Bernard do you know the word
Bernard after a moment of thinking
replies yes he also knows the word the
teacher then asked if Cheryl knows the
word and Cheryl after a moment of
thinking also replies yes she also knows
the word Albert Bernard and Cheryl
always aced their logic exams what is
the secret word that their three letters
spell can you figure it out
give this prom a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution
we're going to analyze the letters in
each of the words in relation to the
responses that Albert Bernard and Sheryl
give the teacher first asked if Albert
knows the word and he responds that he
does know the word
this means that Albert's letter can
uniquely identify a word in other words
the frequency of the letter that he got
is exactly 1 for example consider if
Albert had gotten the letter C the
letter C only appears in the word cat so
if Albert had gotten the letter C he
would be able to figure out that the
word is cat in contrast suppose Albert
had gotten the letter A well the letter
A appears in multiple words so there
would have been no way for Albert to
figure out which word was the word that
they got since Albert replied he was
able to identify the word that means he
did not get the letter A so we need to
find out which letters appear exactly
once in this list of word we can go
through all of the words and we can
figure out which of these letters
uniquely appear one time in this list
these are the letters C o H or s X and
letter I notice in the word tag the
letters T a and G all appear multiple
times in this list so since Albert
replied that he could identify the word
that means he didn't have any of these
letters the word cannot be tagged the
teacher then asked Bernard if he knows
the word Bernard after a moment of
thinking also replies yes so Bernard has
heard Albert's answer and wants to
continue the law
so from this list of words and the
letters that are remaining Bernard would
be able to uniquely identify which word
they all had so we go through this list
it could be the letter T it could be the
letter G it could be the letter H if
Albert had gotten the letter s also it
could have been the letter s if Albert
had gotten the letter H these are the
possible choices the other letters
appear more than once in this list of
remaining letters that Bernard could
have gotten what this means is that the
word could not be Max or dim so we can
eliminate those words now Cheryl who has
heard all of these is then asked if she
knows the word she looks at her letter
and thinks about what Albert and Bernard
had said and also says yes I can figure
out what the word is so continuing the
logic one of the remaining letters has
to uniquely identify the word well there
are only two letters left there's the
letter A and there's a letter D the only
unique letter left is the letter D
because the letter A appears in both the
words capped and has so Cheryl must have
gotten the letter D and it could not
have been the words Kat or has the
secret word is dog Albert would have
gotten the letter O Bernard would have
gotten the letter G and Cheryl would
have gotten the letter D did you figure
it out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch her on social
media at pressure Walker and if you
liked this video please check out my
books there are links in the video
description